CNV-15425: Add CNV NUMA topology docs (#99140)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-disable-CPU-VM-hotplug.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-disable-CPU-VM-hotplug_{context}"]
= Adjusting or disabling the CPU hotplug by VM

As a VM owner, you can adjust or disable the CPU hotplug for individual VMs.
This is the simplest solution for large, performance-critical VMs where you want to ensure a fixed CPU allocation from the start.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Modify the `VirtualMachine` custom resource (CR) for the VM that you want to configure to add a `maxSockets` and `sockets` spec:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: large-numa-vm
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      domain:
        cpu:
          maxSockets: 10
          sockets: 10
          cores: 1
          threads: 1
----
+
By explicitly setting `maxSockets` and `sockets` to a value of 10 or higher, you are specifying that additional capacity is not reserved for hotplugging, which ensures that the entire requested cores are the actual cores allocated.

. Apply the changes to the `VirtualMachine` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <filename>.yaml
----

.Verification

> TBA

Reviewer: oc get vmi <vmi-name> -o jsonpath='{.spec.domain.cpu.maxSockets}'

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * /virt/managing_vms/advanced_vm_management/virt-NUMA-topology.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-disable-CPU-VM-hotplug_{context}"]
= Adjusting or disabling the CPU hotplug by VM

As a VM owner, you can adjust or disable the CPU hotplug for individual VMs.
This is the simplest solution for large, performance-critical VMs where you want to ensure a fixed CPU allocation from the start.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Modify the `VirtualMachine` custom resource (CR) for the VM that you want to configure to add a `maxSockets` and `sockets` spec:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: large-numa-vm
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      domain:
        cpu:
          maxSockets: 10
          sockets: 10
          cores: 1
          threads: 1
----
+

> By explicitly setting `maxSockets` and `sockets` to a value of 10 or higher, you are specifying that additional capacity is not reserved for hotplugging, which ensures that the entire requested cores are the actual cores allocated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By explicitly setting `maxSockets` and `sockets` to a value of 10 or higher, you are specifying that additional capacity is not reserved for hot plugging, which ensures that the entire requested cores are the actual cores allocated.
```

. Apply the changes to the `VirtualMachine` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <filename>.yaml
----

.Verification

. Check that you have configured the `maxSockets` and `sockets` values correctly, by running the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get vmi -o jsonpath='{.spec.domain.cpu.maxSockets}'
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get vmi -o jsonpath='{.spec.domain.cpu.sockets}'
----
+
If the configuration was successful, the outputs are the `maxSockets` and `sockets` values that you set in the previous procedure:
+

> *Example output*

Reviewer 2: use .example instead of *example*
